---
slug: 'how-i-became-a-programmer'
title: 'How I became a programmer'
subtitle: 'A.k.a. Why sneaking out of class is not always a bad idea.'
image: 'https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1613918514536-2071b86612c4?ixlib=rb-1.2.1&ixid=MnwxMjA3fDB8MHxwaG90by1wYWdlfHx8fGVufDB8fHx8&auto=format&fit=crop&w=1062&q=80'
tags: ['personal', 'story']
---

I started programming in 2007. I wouldn’t call me a good student. I would say that 99% of teachers would say I was a below average student, but a pleasure to have in class. I was bored and there was nothing more I hated than being bored.
I was a kid that moved from the sunny state of Florida and then got dropped into a sleepy, small town in Indiana. I went from orange groves and palm trees to corn fields and tractors. So, I was even more bored and restless. I had to create my own fun, and do something that captured my attention.
So, in my 7th grade I was in a “promising” student class. This is for the kids that excelled at standardized testing, but awful at homework. We were in a separate wing of the school and we were completely separated from our peers. The only time we were in the same space as our peers was Lunch or Art class.
I love art. I am going to be honest I was never good at it. It at least was an interesting challenge and something tactile that I could see the end result of. I **HATED** 7th grade art, our teacher was a nice elderly woman whose memory was fading. She should not have been in charge of any group of young minds. We never got assignments; it was more a series of ramblings. Imagine Grandpa Simpson teaching art to a bunch of prepubescent kids. It wasn’t an art class, it was a zoo.
I had one friend in the class, Seth. He was the only other kid in my class as nerdy as I was. He had these thick bottle cap lenses that made his eyes seem huge against his small frame. We sat next to each other in this classes, out of protection from the rest of the class.
“We should sneak out to the library, at least there we can use the computers.” I do not remember which of us suggested this, but we ended up agreeing to this idea. My heart thudded against my chest as we stood up and for the first time I skipped class. We made it out of the class room, and the art teacher watched us leave. She never once said anything about it, especially when it became something we did many times a week.
This was the beginning of Seth and I becoming the underground cyber kings of our middle school. I don’t remember the order of how things played out but generally there are some big items that happened.
The only thing I am certain is the first thing we learned is how to do was turn a text file into a batch file using notepad. Then from there we were able to open any locked program that students couldn’t access. This included a terminal window with complete uncontrolled access to the schools servers.
_Side note: I know this sounds ridiculous. Trust me I wouldn’t believe it if I wasn’t there either. I have to say again, this was a school in the Midwest in the early 00’s. They weren’t the most advanced when it came to technology, they only knew how to install a firewall. They could barely do that either._
We did not change our grades, we discussed it. Trust me, my mom would have loved that since for once I would have straight A’s. Even at a young age Seth and I had “morals” or at least some foundational beliefs.
One of the first things we did was lock our IT administrator out of his computer. We changed his password to an immature, profane mockery of his last name. I am not super proud of this, but I have to be honest about what started me learning to code. He got locked out for a week and had to bring in an outside company to regain access to his systems. This is as close to anything “Black Hat” as I have ever gotten.
We created a file directory on the schools shared server that only students could access or see. We used this to share text documents and funny meme images from “can I haz cheezburger” and Digg. We created a small version of Facebook for our student body. It saved us from beat downs from some bullies during our middle school years, they didn’t want to lose access.
We were always finding ways to break through our schools firewall. It was as easy as adding an “?” or “.php” the end of the URL. We were able to give students access to online game sites using this. During the heyday of Newgrounds and Flash games this made us kings among our 12 year old peers.
There were a ton scripts we wrote that helped along the way, I don’t necessary remember that code all that much. I remember the rush of solving a problem that had impact on people I knew and my friends. That was addicting.
My Art class was only a semester long. So this small period of sneaking out of class to go code and goof of with a friend came to an end. Though, now 15 years on from then I program everyday and use it to solve problems. So you could say I never stopped sneaking out of art class to go solve problems.
